Hey guys welcome back.
All right so in our most recent lectures we went over the fundamentals of lighting audio and video and
the last one we started talking about budgets and then we kind of went through which budget you have
and therefore what's the best setup you can get for making videos.
Now I'll just repeat this one idea because it can help to hear it again.
You can produce great videos on any budget but if you can invest in better equipment it generally is
just going to make it easier.
Now the other factor that can help you achieve some success there are videos is the setup you choose
for your production.
Now this means how will you set up your camera.
Hand your lights and your mikes and especially the people that are supposed to be on camera.
Where will you shoot and what will the shoot look like.
What will the scene look.
Well the frame looks like they're figuring out your setup first.
It will make it a lot easier and probably less expensive to buy the equipment you need.
Otherwise you're kind of guessing and you might end up with stuff you don't need.
It's kind of like furnishing an apartment.
You know you're on a space you've got like the dimensions and the shape of it.
Then it's easier to figure out what pieces of furniture to buy.
If you first think about how you'll use the space well I found that a great way to figure out your own
video setups is just just get inspiration from others.
So in the next set of lectures WHAT WE'RE GONNA DO IS WE'RE GONNA GO OVER THREE different video production
setups that are really common really versatile and really easy to do.
Now you don't have to be a cinematographer or even someone who is remotely creative.
I am not creative to look at these shots we're going gonna cover and say I like that.
That's good for this and this and this and I can emulate that and in fact these shots have been emulated
all over the place.
Once you see them it's kind of hard to unsee it because then all of sudden certain interesting a lot
of people use that style.
No reason to reinvent the wheel.
You might as well just borrow what other people have done.
And well it's effective.
Again we're focusing on the message of our marketing not necessarily by focusing all our creative energy
on making the coolest shot we can.
Now the first that I'm going to talk about is what I called the Whisky a shot we've engine whiskey a
few times before in this video marketing section but I'm gonna remind you again who they are.
They're a video hosting company that provides a platform with a lot of analytics but video usage and
effectiveness.
I used to use Vista and I did generally like using them.
However I found that they're very expensive and I've since changed to sprout video.
Now if you're serious about producing videos that generate a lot of feedback and conversions and are
you know pretty hip and cool.
Check out whiskey.
OK.
So they have a really big learning library if you just go to their home page and click learn they've
made a lot of videos just going over basic things for your marketing videos how to look good on a Web
cam how to film screens how to film in different settings how to recreate certain looks they even did
a thing on ring lights and that's partially where I got the opinion about ring lines but I have also
use them and just generally don't like them but they use them so naturally if they're providing all
this video expertise or they ought to be able to produce their own videos.
Right.
Well they do.
And you can go check them out there.
They're fun they're interesting.
They use a lot of pretty easy techniques.
And if you can copy them and all you guys have watched a lot of my courses you notice that I have actually
copied several of their editing techniques.
Now here's what I'm talking about the whiskey you shot.
They have this repeated shot over and over and over again.
It's so popular that a lot of people have copied them.
In fact they have a video course on udemy super old.
You have to search for it and dig for it and it's free.
But one of the things that cover is how to set this up.
You can also find it on their Web site.
So I call this the Whisky a shot and the video looks a lot like this.
Now this is a reference image they shared on their site to show people what their videos look like.
Well you can essentially see that there's one speaker in the video and he's located right smack dab
center of the frame or you know the visible area.
This is repeated over and over and over again.
It's always one person right in the center with the camera slightly higher than their eye level.
It's hard to notice this but if you watch their videos they'll explain it.
You can see it's directly above their eyes.
They also put their lights really high up like stadium lights so the lights are actually coming down
on you.
Now why do people put their lights really high up.
Well in general the higher the lights if you have a higher angle it'll hit you in a more gratifying
way kind of like how will light models sometimes like putting lights up like this.
And it'll hit them creating obviously the false effect of having abs but in general just a more flat
flattering way of doing it.
Now the standard way they do it is one person standing in front of a solid color seamless background.
Now they use a different bunch of different colors and they use these tools that hold all the schools
of seamless paper and you pull a string it pulls it down.
But that's what they did.
And then what they do is they take the light and they point it backwards at the paper.
And what that does is it creates a very nice gradient effect and you don't see the part where the light
slams into the paper because usually it's behind the person.
Now without the background you'll notice that sometimes they will do the exact same thing that same
setup.
However they'll be in the office right and they use the office as the background.
If use the proper lighting and camera setup while these two shots while they look basically identical
probably because they use the same stuff and this setup has inspired a lot of marketers create videos
that look the exact same way.
It's really a great shot for explaining things.
It just shows one face not a lot going on in the background and you know that the slightly elevated
look makes it easier to kind of connect like you're talking to the person.
It's like a really good spotlight video.
So it's great for them explaining things talking through things telling stories and then you use editing
to kind of make up for how simple and really kind of bland.
The shot itself is now no wisdom it was not the first to shoot a video like this but they got pretty
popular and their influence in recent years is real because while they share a lot of advice so people
can produce great videos remember it's in their best interest because they host videos they want their
own to succeed in their video production.
All right.
So let's explain the whiskey shot set.
We'll try to break down a little bit more and look at the details with a shot like this your speaker
is basically lit.
So let's talk about lighting.
Well we're still used as a setup with two lights on either side of the camera illuminating the speaker.
They use flat lighting if you guys remember this flat lighting is my favorite although they don't ever
actually mentioned this but you can tell when they zoom out.
Like I said before they put their lights up well above the speaker and then pointing them down.
I mean only well above their least like a couple feet above putting down and then they use a third light
not as a hair light or something to illuminate the speaker but instead against the background and it
creates kind of like a halo effect and that's I don't know a pretty good look.
Now for their lighting they use nice stuff.
I'm pretty sure what they use are called Kino flow diva lights and a diva light is pretty expensive
and it's kind of like a midsize compact light but it is very much a professional light and they always
kind of act like oh it's so easy to do this but then they use these two thousand lights.
You can do the same thing easily with any of the LCD recovered and the mid-level package in the budget
lecture you can also do it with a cheap hundred dollars soft boxes you know the quality might not be
the exact same but you're gonna get the same exact shot now for the background they use savage seamless
paper The is called Savage again Each roll of paper we kind of talked to us before they're about 60
bucks so you pick a color and then there are these attachments you can stall into a wall where you can
use multiple colors if you want to mix it up quickly.
Now if you do want to buy the attachment you can just roll out the paper cut it and then tape it.
I didn't actually do that for one of my courses stated at the top right.
Cut off more than you need above the frame and then just tape it there or you can use kind of like a
clothesline.
There's a lot of different ways you can do it you're just hanging a roll.
One thing to keep in mind is that is just be careful not to crinkle the paper when you do this because
that'll actually screw up the gradient effect of the light that hits the background and it's something
that God it's actually really innocuously noticeable because the whole background says to be the smooth
outwardly flowing kind of gradient and a bit of a crinkle it just screws it up.
Now besides that seamless paper you know we showed that they also will do their offices right.
And for the office you'll notice this that they always shoot during the day and you also know that there's
a lot of windows and that when those windows will naturally illuminate things.
So at that point you don't need any background lighting you're just lighting the person and that's it.
If you have a location you want to try.
You can obviously see what it looks like coming in.
If you have an office where you can do this that's it.
You can this a great idea.
Sometimes you can do these a coworking spaces if you want.
Generally these are it's a little bit harder to pull this off though.
Now for the audio in this shot WTA uses a shotgun mike that's attached to a stand.
Now the stand is as close to the speaker as possible of course it's out of the frame so it's not visible.
The stand is extended high and the mike at the end of it points down towards the speaker's face.
They prefer to have the shotgun point downward where your voice is going to be projecting towards.
And that's something I have seen but I honestly haven't noticed the difference between pointing it directly
at the person or directly down.
I think the point is it kind of intercepts the sound as it goes past you but whatever.
Now the camera that they use I believe is the cannon see one hundred or the cannon five D.
And now you might have remembered remember the five days when you talked about the really expensive
package you could do.
Those are usually pretty expensive cameras because they're pro Sumer and you can use them for real professional
setups but you can do with whatever camera you have.
I mean I've done it with a point and shoot I've done it with a DSL.
Are you can you do it with a smartphone if you want to.
Again smartphones are kind of rough because you can't control the zoom level.
I prefer to use something or at least you can zoom and it's it's not digital zoom it's optical zoom.
But anyway it's relatively easy to set up now alternative things you can on top of it as well you can
add on a teleprompter if you need to.
You can add on a ring light and in fact they usually will use a ring like in the shot and it basically
does it covers your face and it kind of lifts of the shadows there and also gives this ring effect on
your eyes which is fine.
However you're only wears glasses then don't go for the ring like it'll just reflect on your glass.
So anyway this is an easy setup to do and it's ideal for explainer videos.
Even Q and A videos you answer questions your customers might have.
How are you set up the shot.
You'll get pretty good at it because it's so basic so you can very easily take it up take it down.
Swap out speakers.
It shouldn't really be an issue.
Now if you want to do with the issue on action.
Well check out the video but about directing non actors on camera.
Well it begins with a classic with a shot but then they cut to show the director behind the scenes.
Well here you can actually see the setup we've been talking about in this lecture and there on screen
while the director of the video talks.
So if you have your own one person videos to produce then I suggest getting a setup a try.
But let me emphasize this point again.
The setup is ideal for videos or you only have one person speaking and you don't plan on offering any
other camera angles.
It's also not good if you're trying to move if you're thinking about adding additional cameras to get
close up like a close up shot on a side shot well then it's just not going to work because the gradient
effect of the light will change.
And also if you change the angle and you probably see the end of the seamless paper that it doesn't
look good.
So that's it.
That's the worst shot.
It's one person talking head it generally cuts off around like your nipples depending on how tall you
are.
Oftentimes enough to shorten it depending on the height of the person you use flat lighting you put
the lights quite a bit higher than the person's eyes you put the camera slightly higher in the person's
eyes.
Use a ring like if you can and you just use basic seamless paper.
Pick a nice background color that you can use and swap out routinely and there you go.
I like this shot because it's just really versatile.
It's great for telling stories.
It's great for Q and A's it's great for anything that's upfront and personal that doesn't need some
kind of flavoring onto it.
What you do with this then is you use a lot of editing and a lot of other techniques we'll talk about
later in this section to really spice it up because you can't just have this forever guys the next set
up we're gonna talk about is the common interview setup.
All right see you then.